Admission Date:  [**3018-5-25**]       Discharge Date: [**3018-6-3**]

Date of Birth:   [**2947-3-21**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 67-year-old man with
diabetes mellitus type 2, coronary artery disease status post
myocardial infarction in [**3016**], hypertension, and a former
smoking history as well as a family history of coronary
artery disease and age greater than 55, who presented with
increased shortness of breath, chest pain and nausea and
vomiting on the morning of admission to [**Hospital3 **].  The
patient stated he was in his usual state of health until last
Saturday when, after dialysis, he began to feel short of
breath.  He needed to sit up in his bed all night.  He also
had some left-sided chest pain but can't remember it well.
The shortness of breath persisted the following day as well
as on the day of admission.  He said it was worse on both
days in the early morning, but only on the day of admission
was it accompanied by nausea and vomiting as well as chest
pain which he stated occurred in the left, right and middle
chest.  He had no angina in [**3016**] when he was stented.  He
denied any peripheral edema, long-standing orthopnea,
paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea or claudication.  At the outside
hospital he was given aspirin, nitroglycerin, Lopressor,
started on a heparin drip, and given intravenous fluids.  The
chest x-ray showed questionable right lower lobe infiltrate
versus congestive heart failure, so he was given Levaquin.
He was brought to [**Hospital1 58**] for
catheterization which showed two-vessel disease, but
intervention could not be accomplished given the location of
the lesions.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1. Hypertension.  2. Diabetes mellitus
type 2 diet controlled.  3. Coronary artery disease status
post right coronary artery stent in [**3016**].  4. Congestive
heart failure.  5. End-stage renal disease on hemodialysis
since [**3017**].  6. Left foot abscess history.

MEDICATIONS:  1. Renagel.  2. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.  3.
Hydralazine 30 mg p.o. q.i.d.  4. Isordil.  5. PhosLo.  6.
Metoprolol  7. Lisinopril  8. Diltia XT.  9. On Levaquin a
week ago for pneumonia.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has a smoking history but quit
smoking in [**3016**] after greater than 50-pack-year tobacco
history.  No alcohol.  No drugs.  He lives with his wife.  [**Name (NI) **]
works for [**Location (un) 719**] Plantation as a security guard.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Negative for fevers but positive for
chills, positive for a nonproductive cough, negative for
melena or hematochezia, negative for urinary symptoms.  He
does make some urine.

FAMILY HISTORY:  The patient's father had coronary artery
disease.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs were pulse 106 and
regular, blood pressure 167/64, respiratory rate 16,
pulmonary artery pressure 75/47, oxygen saturation 100% on
five liters.  General:  The patient was in no apparent
distress and looked older than his stated age.  HEENT:
Significant for extraocular movements intact and pupils
equal, round and reactive to light and accommodation.  Neck:
Significant for jugular venous distension to the jaw.  No
bruits and no lymphadenopathy.  Chest:  Significant for
diffuse wheezing anteriorly and a Tesio catheter on the right
side of the chest.  Cardiovascular:  Examination was
significant for distant heart sounds, S1 and S2 normal, no
murmurs, gallops, or rubs.  Abdomen:  Examination significant
for positive bowel sounds, soft, nontender, nondistended.
Extremities:  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  There was a
tissue defect on the left ball of the foot reflecting a
previous abscess incision and drainage.  Neurological:
Nonfocal, alert and oriented x 3 with no asterixis.

LABORATORY DATA:  The patient's white count was 10.6 with 83%
neutrophils.  His hematocrit was 41.6.  Platelet count was
202.  MCV was 97.  PTT 28.9.  Chemistries revealed a glucose
of 173, sodium 138, potassium 4.9, chloride 101, bicarbonate
26, BUN 29, creatinine 6.  His calcium was 9.1.  Cardiac
enzymes revealed a CK of 759 with a troponin of 8.  His LDH
was 1,164.  His AST was 169, ALT 23, alkaline phosphatase
107, bilirubin 0.6, albumin 3.2, total protein 6.5.

EKG revealed sinus tachycardia, normal axis and intervals, no
evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy, low voltage, Qs in
2, 3 and F that were old, and pseudonormalization in 1, 2, 3
and F as well as questionable ST and T wave changes in V1
through V5.  Cardiac catheterization revealed two-vessel
coronary artery disease with a left anterior descending
coronary artery distal occlusion, a left circumflex 40-50%
long obtuse marginal #1, right coronary artery stent from a
previous catheterization patent with a small distal PL lesion
of 70% at the origin.  Cardiac catheterization revealed
moderate pulmonary hypertension and a wedge pressure of 32,
with PA pressures of 50/27 and a mean of 34.

ASSESSMENT:  This is a 67-year-old man with multiple cardiac
risk factors, also end-stage renal disease, here with
shortness of breath and chest pain concerning for acute
coronary syndrome.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The following is a summary of the [**Hospital **]
hospital by problem:

1. Coronary artery disease:  The patient's two-vessel disease
was not amenable to angioplasty.  There is a question as to
whether or not the patient would benefit from coronary artery
bypass graft surgery, a question which at the time of this
dictation had not yet been answered.  The patient was treated
with aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d., Lipitor 10 mg p.o. q.d.,
captopril 6.25 mg p.o. t.i.d.  The patient could not be
started on a beta blocker because of hypotension.

Because his coronary artery disease was not repaired during
cardiac catheterization, the decision was made to keep the
patient on heparin drip during his hospital stay.  This
heparin drip had to be discontinued on [**6-1**] because of
persistent oozing from a groin line.

2. Congestive heart failure:  The patient was admitted with
pulmonary edema.  An attempt was made to diurese the patient
with Lasix, but this attempt was unsuccessful as the patient
was not making enough urine to diurese.  The renal team was
requested to consult on the patient, and the patient was
deemed appropriate for hemodialysis.  On several occasions
during his hospital stay, the patient was dialyzed.  At the
time of this dictation the patient had had a total of eight
liters removed net.  The patient was also started on a salt
and fluid restricted diet.  Multiple chest x-rays were taken
throughout his hospital stay to assess the status of his
congestive heart failure.

An echocardiogram was obtained, which revealed mild left
atrial dilatation, an ejection fraction of 30-35%, akinesis
of the distal half of the left ventricle and posterior wall,
severe thickening and deformity of the aortic valve leaflet,
mild aortic valve stenosis, mild aortic regurgitation, mild
mitral valve leaflet thickening, mild mitral regurgitation.
Based on the echocardiogram results, the patient was deemed
appropriate for long-term anticoagulation, but this was not
started immediately, given his hemodialysis issues which are
further described below.  He was maintained on heparin during
his hospital stay, but this had to be discontinued as
mentioned above.  An attempt was made to start the patient on
Coreg for his failure, but this had to be held because of
hypotension.  He was able to tolerate captopril 6.25 mg p.o.
t.i.d.

3. Atrial fibrillation:  The patient experienced an episode
of atrial fibrillation without any symptoms while undergoing
hemodialysis during his hospital stay.  As a result, he was
started on amiodarone.  He did not have any further
recurrence of his atrial fibrillation while in house.  A TSH
was obtained and it was normal.

4. End-stage renal disease:  The patient underwent
hemodialysis as mentioned above.  During hemodialysis, he
also received erythropoietin.  He was continued on his
outpatient dose of Renagel and his PhosLo was changed to
Amphojel.  His hemodialysis access site, which consisted of a
Tesio catheter, had to be discontinued after he spiked a
fever in house and the line was considered a potential source
of infection.  The renal team inserted a temporary
hemodialysis access catheter into his right femoral vein.
This procedure was complicated by subsequent oozing from the
site while on heparin, so the patient's heparin was
discontinued.  The patient was dialyzed a total of eight
liters at dialysis, net negative at the time of this
dictation.

5. Infectious disease:  The patient had an episode of
shivering without fever or hypotension while at dialysis.
Blood cultures were drawn and the patient was also
pancultured.  There was no evidence of a urinary tract
infection.  There was no evidence of a pneumonia by either
sputum culture or chest x-ray.  The patient did have multiple
bottles grow positive for coagulase-negative staphylococcus.
Given the degree of bacteremia, the patient was continued on
vancomycin which he had been started on when presumptive
identification of Gram-positive cocci had been made.  The
patient has been receiving vancomycin one gram at dialysis
based on vancomycin levels drawn in the morning.  The patient
has been afebrile while on vancomycin.  The surgery team was
requested to consult for placement of a new hemodialysis
access site.

6. Cough and wheezing:  The patient has a smoking history and
thus was presumed to have chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease.  He was treated with albuterol and ipratropium
nebulizers and inhalers while in house.  He was also started
on a steroid inhaler, Flovent.  Chest x-ray showed no
evidence of a pneumonia.

7. Anemia:  The patient was admitted with an hematocrit of
41.6, but with hydration this number dropped to between 31
and 34.  The patient suffered oozing from his right femoral
groin site on heparin and so heparin was discontinued.  As a
consequence the patient's hematocrit dropped to below 28 and
he required transfusion of packed red blood cells.  He was
consented and he suffered no complications on the transfusion
which was arranged to be delivered during hemodialysis.  He
was also given EPO at hemodialysis.

8. Diabetes mellitus type 2:  The patient was maintained on a
Regular Insulin sliding scale and [**Doctor First Name **] diet during his
hospital stay.

9. Fluids, electrolytes and nutrition:  The patient had
several episodes of hyperkalemia without symptoms or EKG
changes.  He did receive Kayexalate as a temporizing measure
on days when he was not hemodialyzed.  Nutritionally, he was
on [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Doctor First Name **] low-sodium, fluid restriction, heart healthy diet.

10. Prophylaxis:  The patient was treated with Protonix for
GI prophylaxis.  For deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis he
was on a heparin drip for most of his hospital stay.  When
this was discontinued he was started on subcutaneous heparin.

The remainder of this dictation will be completed by [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **]
[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 3615**], M.D.





                            [**Last Name (LF) **],[**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1709**]  M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1710**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 2139**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**3018-6-3**]  14:02
T:  [**3018-6-3**]  15:27
JOB#:  [**Job Number 3616**]
